saster fans welcome to another episode
of the cro confidential podcast I'm your
host Sam blonde back with another
incredible guest that I will introduce
in just a moment prior to doing that bit
of a programming note we typically have
sales leaders on uh this show as the
name would suggest cro confidential um
we're doing a bit of a miniseries in we
have been uh receiving a lot of feedback
and a lot of demand for this concept of
founder Le sales and founder-led
customer acquisition so we're going to
do a bit of a minseries uh with a couple
Founders and we are coming out with a
bang so today our guest is Howard lurman
Howard was the founder and CEO of yex a
company that he took public a number of
years ago he now is starting a new
company called Rome I think we're about
a year into that new uh project Howard
I'm just thrilled to have you here and
welcome to the Pod glad to be here Sam
so uh I will uh quickly tell a story of
how I met Howard who's a Miami resident
along with me uh I was having coffee
with a San Francisco resident um who's
actually going to be a show on this
podcast as well uh his name is Colin
he's the CEO at Omni and he was telling
me about this incredible product that
they just deployed called Rome and that
I should definitely reach out I reached
out to Howard who is the CEO went over
to Howard's office met in person in
Miami and uh I was just blown away by
the product demo and understand why this
other founder Colin who is the former
product lead at looker um and so has a
sort of like history in knowing what
what incredible products look like was
also blown away so let's let's start
there um before we jump been acquiring
your first set of customers Howard would
love to learn a little bit about the
business what is Rome Rome is an
all-in-one Cloud headquarters it makes
companies more productive with fewer and
quicker and faster meetings it makes
them more connected by bringing the
company together the entire distributed
company together Under One Roof and it
helps save them money with our unique
pricing model with a compound startup if
you will with three today and soon to be
five or six different apps for the price
of
one amazing And for those of you that
are listening I was uh truly Blown Away
by the product demo and would encourage
you to go check it out I think at this
point uh Howard you are in a bit of a
closed beta but you do have a lot of
paying customers and so to set the sort
of like Baseline in where we'll be
talking a lot of uh uh for this pod how
many paying customers do you have today
in this closed beta and then we'll sort
of start from zero to getting to where
we are today you know let me just take a
step back and say we're not trying to
add paid customers as fast as possible
right now that's really not our
objective our objective is actually to
provide an amazing product and to have
super high net retention from those that
uh convert to paying customers uh as of
yesterday when I last checked we had 182
paying customers and about 4,000 paid
active members um we've only been adding
new customers for about three and a half
months here we started on January 1st so
we're happy about the pace at which
we've seen that happen but once again
you know that's not our intention at all
growth is not what we're trying to do
we're trying to build out the product
and really get good enough to get to to
be able to get to General availability
which we hope will happen later this
fall awesome and so we've sort of gone
from uh zero to near a couple hundred
paying customers understand that's not
the primary focus of the business but
you do need to have customers to learn a
lot of feedback about the product and um
what what sort of is the primary focus
you're at a bit of a luxury position
that you've built something that there's
a lot of demand in a wait list for um
others may or may not be in that
position where they're not sort of like
customer acquisition constrained so
let's talk about how you've been so
successful at this um you you started
this business Howard when did you start
Rome I know you mentioned you uh started
acquiring customers beginning of this
year but how far into the company well
you know let me take a step back and
just give a little context around the
whole thing so I I ran I started X in
2006 I ran it for 15 and a half years uh
I took it public in
2017 I after five and a half years and
22 earnings calls and eight appearances
on CNBC I got a little sick of
explaining to hedge funded investors why
EPS was off a tenth of a point quarter
of a quarter and decided that I wanted
to go back and be an inventor again and
be a zero to one to use the phrase
inventor innovator and you know yes had
had over 1500 people when I was running
the company and we had always had in
office and sort of if you if you've ever
been to downtown Manhattan you've seen
our building in the meat packing
District we always made big investments
in real estate so I you know and and
this helped with culture this helped
with speed if you needed something done
you'd run right over to the person and
you'd get it done in two seconds and you
know in the pandemic struck we moved to
zoom in slack like everybody else and
frankly when we moved to zoom in slack
Sam we totally lost our speed and
everything became very intentional and
less serendipitous and so the things
that used to take two people five
minutes like standing together right now
ended up being scheduled for Zoom calls
next week for 60 minutes minutes with
eight people so we slowed down we lost
productivity we lost the feeling of
connectedness and you know so one day I
was actually setting up a zoom and you
know you're adding all the people in the
email calendar invite and I forgot to
add someone and at that moment I
realized that if you forget to add
someone to a calendar invite in a
distributed world that person is
disconnected and de tethered and they
don't exist so I had this idea which was
what if there were a bird's eye view of
all of the uh people in a company almost
like a Marauders map from Harry Potter
if you ever read that and it kind of
give you a sense of where everyone is
it's a shared view that everyone can see
and um and if you needed to talk to
someone you could tap them on the
shoulder you could walk over to them uh
and there'd be different sort of formats
for being able to interact you know if
you think of a real world office you
have this ability to walk inside of it
and see who's there right now and get a
sense of the energy you can see which
specific people are talking to which
specific people and if necessary in and
so we made Rome to help bring together
all these people into one into one HQ
and you know it's funny if you think
about what
happened Zoom was the first company to
solve the video conferencing technology
problem and boy they did a good job and
if you think about video conferencing
technology
before Zoom it was a nothing ever worked
and zoom was the first company to solve
the technical problem but after the
pandemic everybody basically rearrange
their workflow entirely around zoom and
so now you have back to back to back
Zoom calls just like this one all day
long and you know and so we've we've
we've all adopted this unnatural
workflow and so what we need to get back
to you know there's all this debate
about the future of work whether it's
going to be hybrid whether it's going to
be in the office whether it's going to
be remote and frankly at Rome we think
that's all the wrong question because
100% of scaled companies are distributed
and you know they have people everywhere
y had people from Berlin to Beijing I'm
sure Sam all of your companies had
people distributed in various offices
across you know the country in the world
and so you know even Founders fund even
Founders fund and so what you need to
get back to and what company the
challenge companies need to solve is not
whether people are going to be allowed
to work from home or Fridays or not
that's kind of a juvenile question the
challenge companies need to solve is how
can you get the whole company working
together in one HQ as if everybody were
in one HQ from anywhere and that's the
challenge we've set out to solve it Rome
with our quack course value prop is uh
uh very strong and definitely resonating
um uh a big um well a little bit of
frustration towards the end of brex was
and brex remained distributed as you
described um was just like waking up and
having back-to-back Zoom meetings all
day long just like a packed calendar and
I know I know people that would that
would drive to the office sit in their
actual office and then do Zoom calls
with people on a different floor in the
same office it's kind of silly yeah so
you have this uh awesome idea you start
building product let's let's revisit the
timeline when when did you sort of form
Rome and start building product well the
day I left y was the day I found it
Rome and you know it's funny everyone
gives you this advice take some time off
you know how you ran a public company
you know Billion Dollar Plus IPO all
this stuff I literally started the
company the next day and um go ahead oh
and and when when was this what was the
time this was uh in March 26
2022 okay so we're um a year and a month
in and you I I imagine start building
product having potentially conversations
so sort of like back to the customer
interactions um when were the first uh
conversations with customers that you
started having well let me just take a
step back and say that the first
customer for Rome was myself
and I think that one of the really
really most important things that any
founder can do and I've seen Paul gram
say this a bunch of times the stuff that
you use yourself as the founder tends to
make the best product and you know it's
been fun for me because frankly you know
yex I love yex I didn't get I was not a
marketer so I didn't get to use the
listings product didn't get to use the
knowledge graph in the same way we could
pitch this in have this vision for folks
but ultimately it was the brand like
Taco Bell or Morgan Stanley that ended
up using the product we were a B2B SAS
company not a B2B Toc or B Toc you know
consumer company at
Rome I'm you know I'm the Target
customer and so the first product the
MVP we built was for ourselves you know
do we like it and the cool thing about
that is you don't ship anything unless
you like it because if it doesn't meet
your standard and you don't use it then
nobody else is going to use so you know
we started using it for some stuff we
were messing around with we messed
around with this kind of AI music app
just as a side hustle just for fun and
we were using this Rome Cloud
headquarters to make stuff and so a
couple people saw it and they're like oh
I'd like to try that for my company so
we gave it to a few other people in
Alpha and really had the full intent of
this this vision for building a cloud
headquarters but not trying to add
customer customers and just get feedback
from a few people that we really knew uh
one of the companies is a qmd they're a
fast growing medical device CRM company
we know the CTO there really well he
used to work at yex and so um you know
their company was one of the first early
adopters a couple other early you know
call it 30 to 50 person companies
started using Rome and um and we didn't
do any marketing we haven't done any
marketing and we haven't done any
outbound it's all just kind of been
folks using the product and again we
shipping like crazy and for the past I
guess 56 weeks that we've been out there
we've had 56 different releases and you
know continued to pack in improvements
and features uh each week at a time but
the the idea has been make a product we
like make a feature we like and if we
like it it meets our high standards then
maybe it's good enough for our customers
and you mentioned a couple folks um I
think you you even said one's name of
qmd that there's um a handful of
customers that you put in this Alpha who
were these people how' you know them you
know it's actually really funny we don't
even know how some of them found us I
think you know it's interesting with
Rome you know you put on a 30 or 40 or
50 person company and somebody's using
it at home and their spouse sees it and
they're like that looks cool and I I
actually heard of a story just yesterday
where someone you know signed up for the
wait list went to our site and was like
oh you know my spouse is a company
that's started using Rome and said it's
awesome and so I looked at it and I want
to try it too and so that's kind of how
we've gone and I think that's how people
have found out about this a little bit
um and we didn't really intentionally go
after anybody the other thing I would
say is that and this is advice for any
founder or or cro it's it's good to
throw stuff against the wall and
experiment Sam we run experiments
constantly and this isn't just for
product experiments this doesn't go to
market I know you're a super expert in
this um so we're always kind of throwing
stuff against the wall to see what
sticks because we don't want to decide
ahead of time oh Rome is going to work
for X vertical and force it to happen
instead we would we would be biased
towards you know running a test to to go
to all the verticals and see which ones
kind of have a have some stickiness and
then go deeper into those that look
promising for sure I I think that's the
concept of sort of like casting a wide
net and seeing where the market pull is
coming from and then over time you you
can focus additional resources where
you're you're finding that that poll
existing and so it sounds like that's
what you've done versus being sort of
deliberate about we're building for this
specific vertical um and this specific
segment uh and so then Howard it it
sounds like you've taken a a different
approach from what many do which is um I
hear people talk a lot about uh sort of
like a set of design customers where we
pick like eight or 10 companies
we we put them in this Alpha and we sort
of like build this product together and
we're constantly getting feedback and
trying to make uh the product successful
and then sort of like expanding from
there it sounds like you didn't have
that plan um and that you're you just
sort of served the customers that came
to you and were open to using the
product but you weren't deliberate about
who those folks were is that the right
interpretation that is the correct
interpretation I I let me add a little
color to that which is I like to say
always talk I mean I'm talking to
customers all the time trying to learn
from them and I listen to customers we
have a in R we have different room types
and one of the types of room we have is
like a Genius Bar support bar where
customers can come into our Cloud
headquarters and get Live support and we
chat with them so I'm chatting with
probably on the order of maybe 50 to 100
customers per on an average day now I
said something really carefully which is
listen to customers problems but do not
listen to their Solutions because this
is the old faster horse thing you know
Henry Ford once said if he listened to
his customer Solutions he would have
built them a faster they would ask for a
faster horse what they're trying to
solve for is speed but they didn't
necessarily conceive of an internal
combustion engine which at the time was
capable of you know propelling people at
a certain speed as a complete
alternative to the horse so you know you
want to understand the pain and problems
your customers are having but then it's
incumbent upon the founders to actually
come up with a solution that customers
can't necessarily see and connect the
dots it doesn't mean that that they
don't ever have good ideas it just means
that it's not like a Consulting project
where you sit there with them in this
design reference thing and then hack
something together for them especially
if you do that for a big company by the
way and and we can talk about that
because I've actually pushed away a lot
of large organizations that want to use
Rome but then have very bespoke needs
and we're not ready to kind of you know
if you were to bring on a Wall Street if
we were to bring on a Wall Street bank
right now for example it would suck up
our entire R&D effort for three years
and we would just make them some custom
thing that might not fit for other
people so that's the balance that you
have to strike when you're when you're
doing this kind of thing and you are
absolutely right that we we like to take
an opinionated approach to our product
and and and that might not always look
like what someone can come up with a
customer by themsel we're going to do
things different later on there there
are two things that resonate that you
just touched on um and they resonate
with me in part because uh at brecks I
observed Enrique who is co-ceo um uh
basically building a startup within a
startup brex launched this sort of
upmarket uh expense management product
called Empower um which was almost like
forming a new business it was certainly
forming a new product and the two things
that resonated that you said one was
that you spend a ton of time with
customers and for months uh three to
four months Enrique sort of like packed
his calendar with up Market CFOs
controllers Finance leaders and I would
join many of these calls and so the the
like thing that resonated or the
takeaway here is the amount of time that
he and it sounds like you spent customer
F facing talking to customers and then
the second thing that resonated and what
I observed as well was Enrique has
developed a really fundamental
understanding of their problems through
these
conversations um and over time he did
incorporate a bit of a what do you think
about like this solution to that problem
but he was not asking for them U asking
from them to design the solution itself
uh he was productizing the solution
based off of the problem set that they
were describing and over time he
pressure tested a bit of sort of like
the approach that he was planning on
taking in developing the product but
they were not designing the product the
customers themselves were not designing
the product and so I I think a couple
important takeaways that that certainly
resonated With Me based on that
experience couldn't agree with you Mar
um okay
so like good good sort of like
continuation along that along those
lines uh how do you balance the time the
sort of like right time to put customers
on the product with product Readiness
you mentioned that you had this Alpha
that there were a couple folks that were
interested how did you know like okay
the product is actually ready to be used
by these folks versus we're we're not
there yet well I I think it's a little
bit of an intuitive thing there's no
exact kind of like you hit this
Milestone and then you know the other
thing that's kind of happened Sam as
we've gone is our vision for what Rome
can be has expanded so you know when we
started off we initially were able to
support Audio Only sort of experiences
which honestly I kind of was inspired a
little bit by Clubhouse which I thought
had kind of a neat format for the
consumer side of things and you know I
was like oh well this is cool it was
obviously a hit during the pandemic
where everyone kind of had nothing to do
all night and so they just sat around on
clubhouse which um then you know kind of
that format became incorporated into
Twitter spaces and we were like wait a
minute that could be useful in a company
and that that um you know that's that's
sort of where we started and with the
you know Marauders map for a company if
you will for an office and then you know
we've added all these different room
types we've added features for group
chat that make it possible for a company
to not if they want use slack because we
think we have a better approach for
direct messaging in particular where
slack is pretty weak we have whiteboards
we've added so you know it turns out
that in order to build a compound
startup as as you know uh from from you
know what you've experienced at Rippling
for example or observed at Rippling for
example uh there's just customers have a
lot of Demands and so in order to have
something you can bring to the market
this is the other Sam the average
customer in Rome is in our product for
5.9 hours per day that's the average so
you can imagine there are people that
are zero and then there are people that
are at 12 14 15 hours a day if someone
is in your product for 15 hours a day
you better be delivering a freaking
amazing experience because the minute
that you don't deliver something awesome
they're pissed or they notice and if it
happens every minute over the course of
15 hours you're going to be delivering a
lot of little kinks and stuff and so
this this product has been so highly
used and there's so many you know sort
of Rich features in in in the all-in-one
solution for a cloud headquarters that
we've wanted to make sure everything is
kind of fully ironed out before we've
we' really brought it to Market so what
we did concretely is the alpha ended at
the end of last year said if you want to
continue you you know you can pay we
have a 30-day free trial and any company
can you know that gets onboard to Rome
and we've taken a totally unconventional
approach and a lot of other things that
I'd like to share with you as well with
regard to onboarding with regard to how
we're doing our demos um and you know
30-day free trial and we've gotten to uh
you know any company can do it and uh
and so we ended the alpha we started the
beta and we think the beta will probably
go till September
October and and so at the same time you
described
uh this is a heavily utilized product
people live in it for an average of five
plus hours a day up to you know 15 hours
a day uh for the people working with
your schedule um and uh but at the same
time like you described the importance
of having like like a product that is
wellb built and working and um really
really great product experience at the
same time you don't I don't think you
want it to be absolutely perfect um like
like you you want to balance sort of of
shipping product with the the delightful
experience that you're describing any
sort of like um philosophy with which
you you uh take that approach well I
come back to the idea that if we don't
like something ourselves we won't ship
it so we're customer zero and being able
to live in in our own product every day
we live in our own cloud headquarters
you know if you if you come to our Cloud
HQ at 10 p.m. last night you would see
probably 12 or 13 of our inventors
working to to to ship something together
and and so being able to kind of I don't
even like to use the phrase dog fooding
because we just use it it's not even
like we're doing it to to to fake it
it's it's just it's like what we do and
so we we actually have a a process by
which in our we release something to
what we call our Alpha version which
goes to us and a couple other companies
and we we sort of use it for a couple
weeks and make it better and better and
better and better and only after it's
made it through our Alpha then we put it
into our bet
which gets shipped to our you know call
it 180 other beta customers that would
use it and so there's kind of a two-step
process by which we first conceive of
something then we Alpha it ourselves for
we build it we Alpha it ourselves for
call it one or two weeks and then it'll
make it we'll merge it into beta and
then give it to those
customers awesome you referenced that uh
you had this Alpha period you then at
the begin around the turn of this year
you converted into a uh paid excuse me a
free trial that was a 30-day trial and
then now you're in this paid beta any
insight into how you determined when the
right time to do that was so you had
folks that were not paying they were on
an alpha you're getting a bunch of
products here here I'm going to cut you
off on this one because I have a very
strong philosophy on don't give stuff
away for free I think free by the way
we're talking B2B here come on like if
it's B to C yeah everything is free and
then you make your money through
advertising and maybe subscriptions with
Twitter blue or something like that but
you know that's only after you have a
dominant consumer rent we're talking B2B
and let me tell you there is an enormous
en I've seen in my career like over and
over and over again a huge sample bias
when you give something away for free
and freeloaders that have no intention
whatsoever of ever buying anything but
they're glad to use your product for
free as long as you'll give it to them
and they actually not only will they
never pay you they also give you bad
feedback so it was kind of interesting
we had a segment of customers in our
Alpha period that I highly suspected F
fit this mold we gave Alpha for free and
as I you know they were not in the
United States they were you know they
did it couldn't be that high margin of a
company they Ed Ram super heavily and
then as soon as it became time to you
know charge someone then they're they're
just not going to pay and so I from the
day one we've started Rome we've had a
philosophy of hey we'll let you try it
for free so that you can see if you like
it but I think a fremium model in
general which by the way this was we we
took a contrarian approach here and we
took a contrarian approach on a couple
other things too every expert in the
world said oh Rome is a viral product
you know you ought to make a free
version and have a premium kind of model
like Zoom well it turns out that Zoom
went after a very different customer
segment to get started and they're more
like calling this is a Rome this is a
cloud headquarters and so our strategy
also informs a top down approach to
onboarding which you don't see in a lot
of kind of productivity software
companies but we've taken a contrarian
approach and I think that other
companies ought to do the same thing
when they think about how to onboard a
company to their product call the
founder and get the whole company to use
it and to try it let them try it if they
like it they'll pay you it's really just
not that complicated and to to try to
and you if you do something premium kind
of you're you're competing with yourself
you create the free monster where you've
got this freemium thing
and then you spend a lot of time trying
to come up with a differentiated feature
that people are willing to pay for and
you agonize about that and so you know
we just said hey we're gonna have a free
trial anybody can try it for free if
they make it through our wait list and
we'll put them on and then we're going
to invest really heavily in conier
service and support to top down on board
the whole company design their space be
there live with them because that
investment in talking to the customers
makes us smarter it's not a cost it's an
investment all right uh that makes a lot
of sense I think there's also something
that is uh sort of the the mindset with
which one uh sort of appreciates a free
product versus a product that they are
paying for um and sort of like
psychologically there is maybe more of
an appreciation for something that uh
costs money that you're paying for um
and also uh a bit of like the concept of
skin in the game where you you want the
company to be successful and so as the
founder you'll join the uh Rome
onboarding call and uh make sure that
others understand how to use the product
if it's something that you're paying for
versus something you're trying for free
it's all about expectations management
and if you look at our website right now
the only page we have on our website it
we have an about us and we have a we
have a pricing page and what we've said
is this is our pricing and everyone pays
the same amount and we did something
kind of interesting too because we we
went with this usage based pricing model
which you don't see a lot in SAS which
is obviously usually prepaid annual
seats we went with monthly active users
which by the way is how slack got
started but after the Salesforce
acquisition they nixed it and so now you
have to pay Upfront for the year in the
kind of Salesforce uh more traditional
sales model uh but we we basically said
here's the price everyone's going to pay
the same amount and by the way here's
the price for next year too and it goes
up a little bit and so this is actually
what Bloomberg did I read uh you know if
you read if you study now they're a
super premium kind of thing but if you
read how they price terminals everyone
pays the same amount for the terminal
and there's you know they they kind of
inform you of what that price is going
to be next year so that you can build
that in it's no surprise at the end of
the year when it becomes a negotiation
for more budget or or a higher price
it's just it's there and then at the end
of this year we'll review the price
we'll reveal the the price for the
following year we'll just kind of do
that systematically so everyone knows
exactly what's coming
always um that's a that's a good segue
uh you have this sort of static pricing
that you've described every customer
pays the exact same amount um and you
also at least today are taking a um
purely product-led growth approach you
do not have salese you do have sort of
like group webinars that people can come
join and and see demos of the product
and interact with Folks at your company
but it is not traditional sales model um
and so with that in mind I know you
mentioned the focus of the company today
is not expanding this sort of like
number of paying customers in the beta
that said you are requiring customers
and you do have some demand genin
channels in place let's talk a little
bit about what the the first sort of
like formal demand gen Channel you put
in place was well let me let me actually
say that it's kind of so first off
there's no formal demand gen Channel
except the founder being the the bdr and
Sam I think you'll appreciate this more
than anyone or SDR whatever you want to
call it I I think the whole bdr model is
kind of flipped in companies and you
know yex had a lot of bdrs and we've
raised a lot of sales people over the
years probably over our 15year career
probably three to four thousand people
came through our sales system and one
thing I learned particularly in
Enterprise is that the best bdr the most
the best bdrs are the most senior people
because they're a phone call away and
can easily meet people and the board and
so I I really think Founders ought to
think about how to construct their board
and or advisors in a way that they can
just make them the bdrs to kind of get
going and to get those high level
contacts because the fact of the matter
is a bdr is going to have a really tough
time unless they're super clever you
know reaching a Founder I'm sure you
have a lot of opinions about this but I
I just think you know the founders and
EOS and boards and advisers need to take
the accountability for for inbound
demand gen so I suppose you might
suggest that that was our first official
demand gen channel was us interesting so
you have um both internal and external
external being sort of like investors
Friends of the the company um these like
evangelists uh that are in the
marketplace talking about uh Rome and
that is generating demand for you
driving folks to the I think it's a
weekly webinar but um driving folks to
the the webinar to view the product and
ultimately um on board his customers you
are doing some things though and maybe
this is along those lines like Howard I
know you're somewhat active on social
media I don't know if you have like a
formal strategy around that you're also
throwing the these amazing events that
uh again I don't know if the intention
of the event is customer acquisition but
it is at least um something that's
really positive for brand and so
anything as like takeaways for you know
a company that is now a little over a
year old in terms of like you know these
are some things that actually have been
super effective I I think I think events
so first off I think an advisor channel
is the best way to get leads because you
could find someone amazing and a lot of
people are will to be advisers for stock
stock options in the company and you put
the advisers to ex we we worked advisors
really hard we had a you know an
Advisory Board and and they were able to
make you know high level introductions
to Executives at various places and
that's you're able to get someone that's
been I'm just making this up the former
CMO of PepsiCo to make introductions to
the current team that kind of thing so I
I I strongly recommend in you know an
advisor whe whether it's a border or
network whatever you want to call it
it's just for bdr it's leg gen it's
super high-end introduction service so
that's the first Channel that I
personally would go after in fact when I
started yex the very first thing I did
we were selling to gyms and I called the
uh founder and president president of
Ura which is the Trade Organization for
gems and this was in 2006 and he sent me
a fax back he faxed me back and said I'm
in and this this is really old school uh
and he is now you know 78 80 but I made
him an advisor to to yex and that helped
us sign up every gym because he just
made a phone he's a phone call away from
everybody so so go for carget advisors
particularly in certain verticals it
really works well if you you know want
to get into Healthcare have a healthcare
adviser if you're going to go into you
know consumer have a consumer advisor
that's that's what I strongly recommend
there then you mentioned events events I
think are the highest Roi way to reach
customers and be to be um if you can if
you can it doesn't have to be much it's
not that expensive to put on a dinner
that's the secret um that that's awesome
a little bit to unpack there let's start
with the first thing that you mentioned
I I think the traditional path is that
you hire uh sdrs to generate demand
these are often times like myself uh 22
23 year old recent college graduates
that come in and um write a poorly
worded email and blasted out to a
database where um 30% of the emails um
bounce and what you were saying is like
rather than focusing resources and uh uh
uh money on that type of a program get
more senior advisors pay them um you
know some Equity amount the same the
same amount take that same dollar amount
that same investment and go after a
here's the thing especially by the way
one extra trick is in Europe
European uh Executives in technology are
very willing to do this kind of thing
and they don't get the same
opportunities that Americans
do from American companies yeah it's an
awesome takeaway and and potentially
something that might uh Drive different
strategy for folks that are listening
which is if you're thinking about you
know very early stage hiring a 22 23
year old bdr like maybe Focus the the uh
resources and attention that you would
need to make that successful with
acquiring some of these advisers that
would make sense like Howard described
um and then you talked a little bit
about events also um I'm excited for one
later in uh May in New York um how do
you think about the success of these are
are you I think you've done one in Miami
you'll do one in same Frisco you've got
one in New York do you think about
success just in terms of like subjective
that was a good event do you think about
in terms of like we want to wire a
certain number of
customers be able to learn a bit about
how you think about those things it all
starts in you know y USE events heavily
in fact we would throw an event every
year where we'd have probably 5,000
people come to our Marquee event called
onward the the metric that we would use
is ACV in the room how much ACV your a
whatever metric you use is showing up to
your event and that you know you look at
the pipeline and then you look at the
existing customers um I think it the
thing you said about how you feel after
the event 100% of the time people feel
good about the event I've never heard
someone say that you you like oh let's
go to the Warriors game and there's we
got a box we brought the customer how
was it oh it was awesome we felt great
about it but did it Advance the business
and that's the question you need to be
asking and so I think the key thing is
who you invite don't invite a bunch of
random people you know only invite and
at Rome you know at our at our events
we're focused on those people that have
come through the tour that seem
qualified to us and have bant and uh and
then you know potentially some people
that those people will be interested in
meeting and so you have to put that
together and create a good mix and have
some good energy and then you know you
want to make it fun but you also have to
get your message across and so you know
I've always Incorporated live product
demos into into our into our events like
it's not we're not just going to come
and have dinner and drinks like that's
that's not how this is going to be we
want this to be informative and
educational and inspiring we want people
to leave this feeling not just like they
had a good time but also kind of
inspired about the company in a in a in
a broader and uh in a in a more
enlightened kind of
way I I I love the last part um one
thing one um important I think uh thing
about Rome is is the demo is is very
interactive it is an exciting product to
demo and to see a demo um and that's not
necessarily true for all technology uh
and so maybe Howard an iteration on that
if if you don't have sort of like a an
incredibly interactive product that
would get be exciting to demo at this
event that you're hosting you just talk
about um some things that are exciting
some Dynamics about the company um
versus just like sitting around having
dinner and so there there is something
that is focus on the business itself uh
whether it is a demo if the demo makes
sense that's great if not talk a little
bit about maybe you have like an
incredible story around how bring in
bring in a customer to tell the story I
mean it's better to have a customer tell
the story bring in a great speaker try
to make the audience engaged with people
that they're going to want to hear from
and then through the lens of you know
their success with what you're doing and
try to kind of build a community of
people that are excited about it too and
you've now done this um you are unique
uh there are very few folks on their
second startup first one uh taken public
for you know billions of of dollars in
terms of an exit and uh so you've now
done this two times over a number of
years um anything that you have tried
that was less successful so we've talked
about the things that have sort of
worked um what either like mistakes have
you made or things have you tried that
didn't work might save some cycles for
those that are listening well I've tried
so many things Sam and I continue to try
so many things uh I I am failing We are
failing constantly we're testing stuff
you know continuously we don't have like
a rigid formal experimentation process
like Google I would say you know Apple
doesn't have that they kind of make
stuff and see if it works and if it
doesn't they'll they'll they'll move it
along but one of the the biggest
failures of my career was a thing called
Ro a zone at yex it was a product that
uh used in a beacon I don't know if you
remember the beacons that ibeacon
protocol that Apple launched that
basically was this Bluetooth thing that
could wake up your phone when you walked
past it it was like a nearfield
communication device and um and this was
a classic example and I don't know why I
let ourselves do this of letting the
technology getting excited about a
technology with no good use case and so
we like pushed we created this super
cool thing that you know could wake up
your phone when you walked into a store
and like it would wake it up and you
know you could interact with it when you
were in that exact particular place and
it was really a great example of you
know a a solution chasing a great
technology as oppose to the other way
around and that was just you know a
colossal fail on on our part it just
didn't just didn't work it was sort of
like the rocket ship that blew up
yesterday but we we learned from it and
we move on and you know we incorporate
those learnings into into new product
development one one other thing I'll
I'll note um is that we also Sam this is
this isn't so much a failure but it's an
example of and maybe this is a Brader
point I'll make I don't you have to be
as a Founder really careful about
listening to the experienced people with
a
Playbook because when they come in and
they have their exact playbook for how
to run things it may have worked at a
certain company but if there were a
playbook for how to just do everything
all the time there would be one 100% of
companies would be successful everyone
just follow the Playbook and Bam you're
done so when you make your company you
do have to be unique and that's okay the
thing is the experts and your board
might not understand that so it's really
important for you to keep unique
characteristics about you know how you
specifically run sales or how you
specifically do Finance or how you
specifically do products um the experts
with their playbook that worked at say
Salesforce or say HubSpot that might not
be able to be transplanted successfully
into your companies parts of it will be
but you also have to find that right
balance of keeping it to be true to your
soul as you SK SC here's an example you
know everyone said okay you know a great
idea for how to do demos is you do
one-on-one demos do you want to be able
to provide a customer with custom
attention when they when they request a
demo on your site well in February Rome
went viral on Tik Tok and it caused like
a thousand PE some huge number not a
thousand but something like hundreds of
PE companies to sign up for for Rome on
the wait list and it made us unable to
handle the onslaught of requests we got
and so we couldn't do a interactive tour
for everybody that came in just we
didn't and we didn't want to hire people
to do it we just we just wanted to kind
of run so we ran an experiment and what
we did was we said wait a minute what if
we created a group tour kind of like
visiting a college campus and let people
come in all at the same time from
companies that didn't know each other
and that really went against the
conventional wisdom of hey a one-on-one
call is going to have a higher
conversion rate to get to onboarding
than you know putting a bunch of people
together it'll make them feel like
they're less important you won't be able
to get the the true needs out of a
customer well Sam it turned out that the
percentage of people that chose to to go
on to the next step in our in our
process went uh not quite but almost
doubled with the group tours and we
don't exactly know why but it's a happy
consequence of a random experiment and
so instead of trying to you know think
about what could happen upfront and then
you know make it happen we just tried
some stuff and it worked and so
therefore we'll lean into that and you
know keep keep doing some more stuff and
keep trying some more stuff we're
running an experiment now uh where
instead of instead of scheduling the
group Tour on our website you can just
click right into it right now just go to
the site enter Rome right now and you're
there and we have guides waiting for you
and we tried that yesterday and I don't
know what's going to happen but people
definitely showed up right into our Rome
Cloud headquarters and they were like
whoa this is cool so we'll see what
happens that's awesome and and my
primary takeaway from what you just
described is less about like you know
all companies out there should start
trying grouped tours it's more that you
should be experimenting and maintaining
this sort of like unique approach that
is uh uh differentiated for your company
and not trying to transplant some
Playbook that worked for a different
business um we did a bunch of that at
brex um you know I've posted about like
uh sending bottles of champagne to
Founders and congratulating them on a
fund raise and that converted to
um demos and and worked really
effectively for us it doesn't mean
everybody should be sending folks
bottles of champagne it means just like
throw stuff against the wall exactly
what you're describing one maybe sort of
like tactical way of doing this is um
just do a contest uh if you have folks
Howard you you have folks probably in
your company that you would include in
this and if those that are listening you
have like a go to market organization
have a contest see you can come up with
the best idea for um a campaign like you
know sending bottles of champagne or
doing group tours or whatever folks have
ideas around come up you know like do uh
a couple hours where folks present their
ideas and then decide which ones you
want to test out um and you know sort of
like Crown some winners uh and then
again this like concept of throwing
stuff up against the wall that's a
decent way of like getting going on
it couldn't agree more all right uh
quick recap here um so some things that
have been really successful for Rome in
terms of customer acquisition before
sort of like acquiring the first set of
customers um one is this concept of like
evangelists that exist that starts with
the founder um and sort of like Cascades
to others in the company to investors of
the business to the first set of
customers really evangelize those folks
into sort of like customer acquisition
machines um in addition uh you have been
really thoughtful about a group of
advisers that you're giving Equity
grants to and there's um a a bit of
trying to think of the right way to
articulate this something that's like
unsaid perhaps or maybe it even is said
around you know you're receiving this
grant in part to evangelize Rome and uh
ultimately lead to the acquisition of
addition additional customers even if
it's like you know deliberately explicit
uh or not um and then the next thing
that has been really effective is these
events the events you are curating a uh
crowd um versus just like inviting
anyone that wants to join the crowd is
um users and potential users of the
software and maybe some like really cool
um guest speakers that will uh create uh
sort of like demand to attend the event
um and at that event make it interactive
and make it centered around the business
versus people talking about the NBA
Playoffs as we did before we joined this
call Howard um so I think that's that's
a bit of the recap anything that I've
left off that you would like to uh end
on the only thing I would end on Sam is
to always trust your
gut there's a lot of there's a lot of
experts out there they know what's best
for them but only you know what's best
for you I love it that is a great place
for us to end Howard can't thank you
enough for taking the time
congratulations on uh it just like this
incredible progress that has taken place
in a short amount of time something like
13 plus months at this point from the
time that you started this new business
um and I know that there's an incredibly
exciting future for Rome and again thank
you for your time we'll see you all back
here for the next episode of cro
confidential everybody have a great rest
of the day byebye
[Music]